TODO Title

Goals
Context for why there are different styling techniques
Exposure to a broad list of concerns when choosing styling techniques
Code something close to what you do as a kind of review
Time to ask questions

- Why inline styles
  - TODO: pull presentation directly

"Problems with CSS at Scale"
NationJS 2014
Christopher Chedeau

1. Global namespace

.my-selector {}
.etc {}
.my-selector {
  /* accidental overrides */
}

Custom language selection to make things local

2. Dependencies

<div className="from-somewhere" />

classNames function - handled imports

3. Dead code elimination

.who-knows {}
.what-can {}
.safely {}
.be-removed {}

className functions allowed

4. Minification

unoptimal

.selector-names {}

className functions made easier

5. Sharing constants

JS-CSS var sharing
Comments only

.my-selector {
  animation-duration: 400ms; /* same as JS */
}

FB made new functions

6. Non-deterministic resolution

const link = document.createElement('link')
link.rel = 'stylesheet'
link.href = 'some-new-stylesheet.css'
document.head.appendChild(link)

All in global ns
Async load, styles can change
Not resolved at FB

7. Isolation

Easy to modify what should be protected
Convenient
Violates public api contracts
Depend on internals

.some-component > div > a {
  color: red;
}

Hacks, utilities, languages
Defy convention, 

Lots of new options
Inline styles
CSS in JS
CSS modules

You have options to choose from
The things Christopher mentioned are worth your consideration
Here are some other things, mostly of lesser import that come to mind that you'll eval

- Issues come up relating to styles; which are good at fixing; 
This could be comparisons
Going to list it as things I like
You can list things you like
Good to hear another perspective
In the end, my perspective doesn't matter a lot
But it might be interesting
Maybe spark a thought that leads you to explore something useful

## Colocation

I like seeing my structure separate from the CSS.

<div className="selector" /> 

vs

<div style={{ color: red, /* etc */ }} />

I like to see the most important thing in a file

For the component js file, I think that's the render of the main component
markup, style annotation and data, all layered

I can go to another file for the css. It can be in the same file. Like not stressing about abstracting every little thing into its own file. But like doing it when things feel untidy.

Often you'll get two files if you want them "colocated" but easy to read when you want them:

mycomponent.tsx
mycomponent.styles.ts

Then you have to decide what those .styles.ts contracts are going to be like, maybe:

import { css } from '@emotion/react'

export const container = props => css` ... `
export const button = props => css` ... `
// ...

Stylesheets are still a favorite for me.

The best thing that "colocation" can mean is easy discoverability and direct association.

## Dynamic styles

I like seeing the logic controlling styles in the components.  All approaches can accomplish this.

if (state) return <markup {...withStyles(state)} />

CSS-in-JS feels the most 1:1 here, because it's often on the style objects themselves:

import styled form '@emotion/styled'

const Button = styled.button`
  color: ${props => props.active ? 'red' : 'black'};
`

But using the style abstractions of a more stylesheet-based approach is also great.

import cx from 'classnames'

return <button className={cx({
  button: true,
  'button--active': props.active
}) />

BEM can be very organized, so it's verbose.  Sometimes hard to see related selectors and thuse associate dynamic states.

## Composition

Make favorite is CSS modules via composes:

.juicy {
  color: red;
}
.watermelon {
  composes: juicy;
  background-color: green;
}

// exports
{ watermelon: 'juicy-abc123 watermelon-abc123' }

I get control of when I make selectors, when their combined, all in css.

CSS in JS you have lots of composition options. Have new tools and sharp edges to learn.

## Language

I like writing in CSS if I can.  Dashified naming. No quotes. Semicolon everything. Feels like writing yaml instead of json.

## Variable sharing

I like in JS much more. Sometimes you just have to go there. Any dynamic values generated by code.

For constants, in practice, sometimes we've kept a JS and a CSS list in sync. Could generate from a single source of truth, and that'd be better for syncing, worse for complexity.

## Shipping apps

I'm all for CSS in app styles.

## Shipping components

Currently I ship CSS in the JS.  The thing that's great: One npm install, and you've got it all.  Head insertions will happen.

Would love better standards and tooling for shipping style with ui code.

## Isolation

Love knowing that the styles I'm writing only affect the component I'm working on.

Love knowing that it's not easy for others to mess me up.  I'm better protected.

## Cascade

But when I *want* someone to be able to override, isolation is not my friend.  Or it is, but it's not as convenient as just using the CSS cascade.

Cascade: put a later selector in the global NS of selectors, you'll change the style. Convenient. Dangerous. Unpredictable.

In isolation, I have to do the work to say what I'm willing to have overwritten. At least I get to chose. But it also may be difficult to anticipate general usage requirements.

## Explicit dependencies

I love when I'm coding to be able to "jump to declaration". The tooling and my eye can follow dependencies to where they come from.

Vanilla CSS does not give us that. 

Inline, CSS in JS and CSS modules can give us that.  Through today's fancy tooling we can also ruin that.

## Libraries

The fewer the better. They're so similar. Just chose one. 

The minor iterative improvements from one to the other rarely justify the cost of moving a project or organization. 

Make changes based on generational improvements. Again, rare.

I like sticking in the mainstream for the big, important stuff.  I like messing with experiments on experiments.

## BEM

I like this convention.  I think it is a good tool for helping maintain discipline. As with most code, discipline and organization with an eye to future readability and maintenance is important.

## Tooling

I like my tooling to just work.  That's why I use vim. 

Hehe, just kidding. I use vim for modal editing.

Think about if your CSS approach will be well-supported in your tooling.

## Talent

Who can we hire for this. I like to not have to search too hard or train too hard to find someone to help me.

## Speed

I like fast builds.  I like hot reloads.

## Simplicity

I like something that's built on something I can understand. Has the fewest build steps. No build, even better. These days, builds give so much value, so hard to avoid.

Choosing and gaining momentum
More important than the choice, you chose and push it forward
Momentum and productivity
Creating value using the tool, not the tool, that's important
Your work at FamilySearch is important!

Become deft at a tool
More important than knowing how cool the Internet thinks every tool is
And not being good at it
https://jaketrent.com/post/making-more-important-than-how/

- Emotion - styled then css
  Bubbles
    :hover
    :after
    @keyframes
    @media

- Lots of approaches
  - Relate to specific business needs
  - Something you can hire fore

- What I work a lot on



